We just talked about
Monte Carlo with
function approximation and
TD with function approximation.
But how do these
algorithms differ?
Today, we're going to talk
more about the bias in
the TD update and compare it to
Monte Carlo in
a small experiment.
After watching this video,
you'll be able to;
understand that TD converges to
a bias value estimate and
understand that TD can learn
faster than Gradient Monte Carlo.
Under reasonable assumptions,
Gradient Monte Carlo
will approach
a local minimum of
the Mean Squared Value Error
with more and more samples.
This is because it uses
an unbiased estimate of
the gradient of the value error.
In theory, we need to
run the algorithm for
a very long time and decay
the step size parameters to
obtain this convergence.
In practice, we use
a constant step size.
So the algorithm oscillates
around a local minimum.
On the other hand, the TD target
depends on our estimate of
the value in the next state.
This means our update
could be biased
because the estimate in
our target may not be accurate.
Since our value
approximation will never
be perfect even in the limit,
the target may remain biased.
We cannot guarantee that
semi-gradient TD will
converge to a local minimum
at the Mean Squared value error.
Of course, this bias will
reduce as their
estimates improved.
But how do all these
theoretical concerns
impact performance in practice?
Let's return to the 1,000
state Random Walk example,
to see the impact of
bias in the TD update.
This time, we'll learn
approximate values using
semi-gradient TD
instead of Monte Carlo.
After running TD for a long time,
such that our value
estimates have stopped
changing, this is what we get.
The value estimates do not align
well with the true values
for many states.
TD's estimates are not as
accurate as the estimates
done by Monte Carlo.
In this domain, the
state aggregation,
Monte Carlo has an advantage in
terms of long-run performance.
But what about
the speed of learning?
Which of TD and Monte Carlo
makes best use of
limited samples?
Let's run a different experiment
to get to the bottom of this.
To focus on early learning,
we only run 30 episodes.
Remember, in the last experiment,
we used 1,000 episodes.
The performance of
both algorithms depends on
how we set the step size
parameter Alpha.
The two algorithms may require
very different values of Alpha.
To do a fair comparison,
we tested each algorithm with
100 evenly spaced values of
Alpha between zero and one.
We take the best
performing Alpha for
each algorithm and
compare the performance.
The best Alpha was defined
as the one that resulted in
the lowest value error after
30 episodes of training.
For this task, the best Alpha
we found for TD was 0.22.
The best alpha for Monte Carlo
was much smaller, 0.01.
Let's plot the performance
of each algorithm.
The y-axis shows the root mean
squared value error for the 1,000
states averaged over 100 runs.
The x-axis shows us
the episode number.
We expect a value error for
each algorithm to start
high and progressively decrease
with more and more episodes.
Let's look at the results.
We see the TD reaches
a lower error faster.
This is not a one-off result.
TD often learns faster
the Monte Carlo.
This is because TD
can learn during
the episode and has
lower variance updates.
Monte Carlo is better on
long-run performance,
it's not always the main concern.
We can never run our experiments
to achieve asymptotic
performance.
Early learning is perhaps
more important in
practice. That's it for today.
You have now seen how
the TD update for function
approximation can be biased.
But we often prefer TD learning
over Monte Carlo anyway
because it can learn more
quickly. See you next time.